[MUSIC]
Hello again my friend.
In this video, we're talking about aspect
ratios, to make sure that when someone
playing on a 16:9 device, or 4:3 device,
our game is fitting as it should.
So let's jump over to I'm just
gonna reset game here back to 16:9,
cuz that's going to be my default,
16:9, I reckon.
I think that's what is the sweet spot for
devices just at the moment.
And you can see we've
got our outline here,
which is where our game
thinks the game should be.
And then we've got our
big old image behind it.
When we click on Game,
our image is being chopped off.
And that's ccuz we've
said our image should be,
if I click on Canvas and then my Image.
We've said we want it to be set native
size, and the native size I know by going
to my images, and
clicking on the splash image here.
I can see that the native size is,
where are you hiding native size?
I need to find an image, there he is,
the splash imagine underneath.
And drag this guy up here.
1920x1080.
And so we're showing 1920x1080,
whereas when we go to click on our Canvas,
it thinks that the game is much smaller.
It's saying this is what
I'm gonna show on the game.
So the first step is for
us to say the Canvas Scaler.
We want to change this to
Scale With Screen Size.
And have our reference resolution,
doesn't really matter, but
the reference resolution says,
well we're gonna drop a whole bunch of
art in here that we thinks 1920x1080.
So let's make our reference
resolution 1920x1080.
And now we can see that our outline of our
canvas matches the outline of the image.
If you click on game,
the whole thing fits in.
Sweet.
Now, if we were to play around with
some of these other scale modes,
we could say constant pixel size.
And I know we've looked at
this in previous sections, but
just very briefly constant pixel
size would say, if we click on that,
we won't Want to have no matter how
someone changes the resolution.
And if we're making a mobile game,
the resolution is changing cuz
someone's on a different device.
We're saying keep the pixel size exactly
the same on their screen, no matter what.
So if we go and drop an image in
here that's 10 pixels by 10 pixels,
it will take up 10 pixels by 10 pixels no
matter what the size of their device is.
Whether they've got a massive tablet or
they've got a little
teensy-weensy flip phone.
Okay, that's Constant Pixel Size.
Constant Physical Size
is on the other side.
If we say we want our image to take up for
example 10 cm.
You can see that there are different
units we can choose in here.
10 cm for example on their screen.
No matter what size screen they've got,
we want this button to be 10 cm by 10 cm.
Hang on,
does that actually fit on a phone?
Probably not.
So, we can say Constant Pixel Size.
For us we wanna have scale
with screen size, so
if it's a different device the the whole
thing gets stretched bigger and smaller.
There's a few different
ways to do the stretching.
This is the screen match mode here,
match, width or height.
You can choose to scale based upon
all the way on the left is width, and
all the way over on the right is height.
Or we can choose to Expand and Shrink.
So let's play around with those
a little bit at the moment.
First thing I'll do is
detach my scene window.
Just drag it and find a spot where it's
not gonna click into somewhere else, so
that I can then plop that
over on the side there.
You can see what I'm doing,
is I'm fiddling around with stuff here.
Grab the game.
Do the same.
Drop it into the middle.
Change its size, okay so
it's about that, great.
Just a note, when you're moving around
the game window, if you're moving it,
you'll see that it's not changing until
you let go and then it goes, blop and
drops into place.
Go to over here.
So if we change screen match mode to
say Expand, what is that going to do?
Well one of the things when I'm playing
with here is this aspect ratio.
Again, we've done this in the past,
if there's an aspect ratio that you don't
have in your list here, you can add
it by clicking on the plus button.
For example there are some,
I'm gonna change it from fixed
resolution to aspect ratio.
There are some devices
nowadays that are 18x9.
Not just the 16x9, but 18x9, so
they're even longer than they are high.
Okay, click OK on that, so
now we have our extra 18x9 that we can
select as an aspect ratio
to see how that looks.
And when we do that, we've now got
these blue bars down the side,
they're blue because my settings
say they should be blue.
And I've got a little mini challenge for
you here, for those of you who already
know the answer to this,
you'll be like this is simple, simple.
And for those of you who don't,
a little bit of a research maybe just
to poke around, some experimenting.
So to change our default
background to black.
So that's your mini-challenge.
Jump in and
do that now if you'd be so kind.
And if you get stuck here's
a quick hand for you.
If you don't think you need the hint,
then take on the challenge now.
Otherwise, here's the hint.
One of your game objects already
in your scene, has what you need.
It's like a riddle isn't it?
You already have a game object
that does what you need.
So jump and take on that challenge.
I'll see you back here in a moment.
Okay, so well done if you knew
exactly where to go for that.
The background here comes from our camera.
So if you click on main camera,
you can see that currently our
default background is this blue.
Now I asked you to change it to black
which is the common convention when you've
got these side bars,
basically the game is saying,
I don't have anything to put down here,
so i'm just gonna put these black bars.
For the illustrative purposes
while I'm showing you this video,
I'm gonna make mine a pink color, so
you can see it really clearly and
easily, cuz the black kind
of blends in with they grey.
This grey is purely from Unity.
That's from me playing
around with window here.
The device would be, for example,
there, down to there, down to there,
and this is just Unity saying well,
I've got more stuff in the window because
that's how Rickers made
my window at the moment.
Okay, and the pink stuff is what
the player is going to see.
If we use a particular mode.
So let's have a play around
with this a little bit more.
Seeing view where we can see it.
Click off camera so
that's not sitting over the top,
click on the cameras, there we go.
Camera's here.
So if I'm in this 18x9,
we have these bars on the side,
I'm gonna set mine defaulting to 16:9.
This is where I say, okay,
I want 16:9 to look good.
16:9 is gonna cover a lot of
the common aspect ratios, and
I have a little diagram for this.
Let me just show you this for
those of you who are not quite fully 100%
clear on the aspect ratio stuff just yet.
Rick, can you explain it
a little bit more detail?
Yes, I can.
So if you look at this,
this might be a tablet, and
a tablet generally is a little bit wider,
a bit fatter.
Whereas a phone tends to be a phone, tends
to be a little bit narrower or skinnier.
Now if we look at this tablet, the old,
old tablets tended to
be 4x3 aspect ratios.
So the longer edge,
usually referred to as the width,
cuz we talk about things in
the landscape or the horizontal aspect.
4x3, so no matter how many pixels
this was, this along here,
the aspect ratio is for
every four pixels along our long side,
we have three pixels along the short side.
And for
a phone nowadays common is more of a 16,
whoops one six, not six one.
16x9.
So
for every 16 pixels we get along
here we get 9 pixels along there.
And some phones get tons of pixels, so
you might have a full on
1920x1080 resolution.
And that's an 8,
well done Rick, typing an 8.
1920x1080 resolution
meaning we physically have,
I'm going to tap in here
1,920 pixels you see.
A pixel is a dot that's
showing you the graphics.
Each of these little dots
make up the picture and
then this way there is 100x80
dots along the screen, and
then all of these add up to the total
number of pixels you get on the screen.
So it could be 1920x1080 could be
smaller than that It could be 1280x720,
could be the number of actual
pixels you have on your phone.
Or on your tablet, or
on your TV for that matter.
Generally, 1920x1080 is referred to as
1080, and 1280x720 is referred to as 720.
On some other phones,
maybe it's the Google Pixel 3 for example.
The Google Pixel 3 I believe has
an aspect ratio of 18x9 I believe,
so then it has even
more pixels along here.
What does that mean for
us when we are making our game.
What means if you are making
a game that looks really sweet,
I'm gonna change my color
here if you let me.
If you make again,
it looks really sweet on the tablet.
You're like that's prefect, fits nicely.
We've got things over here.
We've got things there.
We've got things right up
in the top right corner.
And then you stick it on to a phone
that has a much longer resolution,
then you end up with the black bars
along the side of your screen.
So what do we do about this?
Well we've got a couple of options.
And those options we see over
in our Screen Match Mode here.
We can do the Match, Expand or Shrink.
So let's have a look at
the Expand first of all.
So I've got my game at 16:9.
It all fits nice and neatly.
There's no extra pink zones within it.
As I call, how is this gonna look on 4x3?
Because 16x9, and
4x3 are the two ends of my spectrum.
I'm probably gonna bounce between those,
but we'd have a look at 16x10.
We'd have a look at it at 18x9 as well,
but we'll see how it looks on 4x3.
If we're using expand, and
we say that our reference
resolution is 1920x1080 which is a 16:9.
Then when it expands, it's going to add
more content, i.e., add the black bars,
or in my case I've made them pink bars so
they're easier to see.
So we still retain all of
the content on our screen.
It still stretches or scales as the device
is a bigger device or a smaller device.
But if the shape of the device is
a little bit squarer, i.e., 4x3.
Then we will get these
black bars put in there.
Now, what happens if we would
have used Shrink as our option.
Well, Shrink when we start off with
our 16x9, looks kind of nice and
neat and normal.
Okay, I'll just line it up there.
And you can see the outliner overall.
Now I'll send you over here.
Line's up.
If I was to then change that to 4x3.
We lose the content on the side, and you
can see over here again in my scene view,
that it has just brought
in the side of my game.
Which is totally cool in terms of making
sure we don't have any black bars, but
not cool if you've got
important content on the side.
Now for my splash screen here,
there's nothing important on the side.
It's just a little bit
extra artistic flavor, but
we've created it in a very smart way.
Let's say we've got all
the important content in the middle.
So for this particular scree,
I'm gonna go with this shrink option,
so that if someone if using
a different aspect ration,
they're not gonna get the black bars.
You can do it anyway you want,
I really wanna be clear on that.
But I think for
this one it looks pretty cool.
And also cool, is we can do it differently
for different scenes in Unity.
We don't have to have the same canvas
scaling approach for all of them.
So I'm gonna save up my scene here,
jump over into my other scenes to
leave my windows floating around.
Find a way.
Jump over into my start screen.
Now my start screen,
I'm just going to zoom out.
Okay, we have the same issue that we
had before where we haven't told it,
click on Canvas, we haven't told it.
Sorry I know this all a little
bit hard to see at the moment.
Pop it over there.
There we go.
This is scene and this is game.
We are still on constant pixel size,
I wanna change that to scale with screen
size and put my reference
resolution to 1920x1080, excellent.
And if I put it to 16:
9 it looks pretty good.
Now I'm gonna show you a not
exactly perfect amazing way,
first to resolve this.
But it's what I am gonna do good
enough for now, and it's for
educational purposes.
The problem is that we've got
this art that has graphics,
that has words baked into the background.
So if I now go and say, let's see,
Expand, and then choose 4x3.
Okay we have our bars, and
note again you have to change the bars
each time you come into the main camera.
So change this to black if you will,
for me for
illustrative purposes
I'm gonna make it pink.
Again, so you can see what's going on.
Okay, so expand puts in the bars like
I don't really like the look of that.
I don't wanna have black bars,
might be my approach.
So if we go Shrink, but
when I do Shrink and it's down on 4:3.
So sidenote,16:9 looks just fine,
4:3, I lose my text over here.
So what I'd like you to do
as another challenge is,
this is the second challenge.
I usually don't do two, just the one.
Is to anchor your Start Menu text so
that it is always close to
the right of the screen.
No matter what aspect ratio we are using.
So, you need to remember back from
when we were working on anchoring.
You'll need to do a little
bit of alignment, and
you'll need to play around with the screen
scaling mode that you're using.
But jump in, take on that challenge.
And I'll see you back here in a moment.
Okay, so what I mean by this is see
how we're getting chopped off there?
So no matter what, we have to have
Start Game and Quit visible to the player,
or else they may like Start Gar, I don't
know what that means, we don't want that.
We could just do the black bars, but
we're gonna go with an approach
where we're not gonna do that.
I've got my scale with screen size to
1920x1080, and the screen mode is Shrink.
And what I will do is click on my garden
text and rename it, cuz I'm naughty,
I haven't renamed it.
That should be Start Text On here,
rename the reloading text to
be what's that, quit text.
Okay, that's a little renaming.
So the start text, we'll click on that
back over into my scene view here,
I'll just make it a little bit bigger.
You don't have to move your windows around
the way I am, I'm just doing this so
you can see what's going on.
And first of all, we need to click on our
w tool, move that fits within the window,
the current window that is here.
I'm going to just get this default UI
thing out of the way, find the alignment,
click on right align.
Now I need to move it
a little bit further,
cuz there was a line center, put the edge.
How far away from the edge do I want it?
Around about there, I think.
And 4x3 is currently my
squarest resolution.
So my Start at the worst case scenario is
gonna appear all the way into about here.
And that's still readable I think.
That's cool.
And while on start, I'm going to
click on the anchor tool, that little
grid thing here and click on the right,
so now my anchor point is on the right.
I'll do the same for quit, and
then we'll have a look at
whether it's all worked or not.
Click on quit, do the right alignment.
Move it over to the right, so
it's a right aligned approach here.
I don't have to do it right aligned, but
I find that's gonna make it look
a little bit neater and tidier.
Start game and quit.
Now, if I was to click on
a different aspect ratio so
16:9, you can see that sorry.
Bit too hasty Rick what are you doing?
I didn't click on anchor and to the right,
so now it's anchored to the right and
I need to move it.
Oops, from my scene view yep, scene view.
Move it over to the right, close to that.
Being a bit thrown off here, cuz I wasn't
zoomed in properly on my scene view.
Okay, there we go.
Now, when I'm on 16:9,
that all looks like it's taken.
16:9, it's way over on the right.
If I go to say 16:10,
it's still to the right.
If I go 4x3, it's still to the right.
So it's all fitting in in a nice spot.
We know no matter what we're not gonna
lose our game text, it's gonna be in here.
I said before that we
do lose our big glitch.
That's a note.
If you're baking in any information that
you just really don't wanna lose in your
background, then make sure
you have a safe zone.
And the safe zone as you can see here,
is this amount of space to the left and
the right.
So we'd wanna create our art, so
there's nothing important there and
nothing important there.
With you now, our setup of our image.
Okay so there we have it.
We've created our splash screen and
our start menus, and
our aspect ratio is feeling pretty good.
No matter what size and
shape of mobile within the 4:3 to
16:9 relationship should be good.
What's 8:9 look like?
Okay, we will get a little bit
of chopping off at the 18:9.
Sorry.
That's okay.
As well I'm happy with that, there's
a bit of that safe zone coming into play.
Okay, cool.
So we're all set up, ready to go.
Let's jump into the next video.